# ScyllaDB Operator AI Usage Policy

As AI technologies become increasingly integrated into software development and operations, we'd like to clarify our project's
stance on the use of AI tools in ScyllaDB Operator development. This policy outlines our guidelines for using AI in code generation, documentation, and other aspects of the project.

## Guidelines

- AI tools can be used for code generation, documentation, and other tasks, but all contributions must be reviewed by a human before being merged.
- A PR author should understand the output generated by AI tools and be able to explain it to reviewers. Blindly accepting AI-generated content without understanding it is discouraged.
  It is advised to write a summary of the changes in the PR description _without_ relying solely on the AI-generated content.
- It's the PR author's responsibility to ensure that the AI-generated code or content is tested.
  - For code contributions, this includes writing tests covering the new code and ensuring that all existing tests pass, but also manual testing if automated tests are not sufficient to cover the changes.
  - For documentation contributions, this includes ensuring all the commands, code snippets, and instructions work as expected, and the content reflects the actual behavior of the software.
  - **Reviewers can request self-review if they feel that the PR author does not fully understand the changes or if the tests are insufficient.**
- Contributors should clearly indicate in their PR description if AI tools were used in the development process, and specify which tools were used.
- The use of AI tools should not compromise the quality, security, or maintainability of the codebase. All contributions must adhere to our existing coding standards and best practices.
- Communication in a name of a human contributor should never be conducted _automatically without human oversight_. This includes, but is not limited to: responding to issues, PRs, or comments. All communication should be reviewed and approved by a human before being sent.
