docs/source/management/upgrading/upgrade.md, before:

# Upgrading {{productName}}

{{productName}} supports N+1 upgrades only.
That means to you can only update by 1 minor version at the time and wait for it to successfully roll out and then update
all ScyllaClusters that also run using the image that's being updated. ({{productName}} injects it as a sidecar to help run and manage ScyllaDB.)

We value the stability of our APIs and all API changes are backwards compatible.

:::{caution}
If any additional steps are required for a specific version upgrade, they will be documented in the [Upgrade steps for specific versions](#upgrade-steps-for-specific-versions) section below.
:::

## Upgrade via GitOps (kubectl)

A typical upgrade flow using GitOps (kubectl) requires re-applying the manifests using ones from the release you want to upgrade to.
Note that {{productName}}'s dependencies also need to be updated to the versions compatible with the target {{productName}} version.

Please refer to the [GitOps installation instructions](./../../installation/gitops.md) for details.

## Upgrade via Helm

### Prerequisites
- Update {{productName}} dependencies to the versions compatible with the target {{productName}} version.
  Refer to the [Helm installation instructions](./../../installation/helm.md) for details.

- Make sure Helm chart repository is up-to-date:
  ```
  helm repo add scylla https://scylla-operator-charts.storage.googleapis.com/stable
  helm repo update
  ```

### Upgrade ScyllaDB Manager

Replace `<release_name>` with the name of your Helm release for ScyllaDB Manager and replace `<version>` with the version number you want to install:

```
helm upgrade --version <version> <release_name> scylla/scylla-manager
```

### Upgrade {{productName}} 

Replace `<release_name>` with the name of your Helm release for {{productName}} and replace `<version>` with the version number you want to install:

1. Update CRD resources. We recommend using `--server-side` flag for `kubectl apply`, if your version supports it.
   ```
   tmpdir=$( mktemp -d ) \
     && helm pull scylla-operator/scylla-operator --version <version> --untar --untardir "${tmpdir}" \
     && find "${tmpdir}"/scylla-operator/crds/ -name '*.yaml' -printf '-f=%p ' \
     | xargs kubectl apply
   ```
2. Update {{productName}}.
   ```
   helm upgrade --version <version> <release_name> scylla/scylla-operator
   ```

## Upgrade steps for specific versions

### 1.17 to 1.18

Upgrading from v1.17.x requires extra actions due to the removal of the standalone ScyllaDB Manager controller.
The controller becomes an integral part of {{productName}}. As a result, the standalone ScyllaDB Manager controller deployment and its related resources
need to be removed before upgrading {{productName}}.

{#steps-1-17-to-1-18-upgrade-via-gitops}
#### Upgrade via GitOps (kubectl)

```
kubectl delete -n scylla-manager \
    clusterrole/scylladb:controller:aggregate-to-manager-controller \
    clusterrole/scylladb:controller:manager-controller \
    poddisruptionbudgets.policy/scylla-manager-controller \
    serviceaccounts/scylla-manager-controller \
    clusterrolebindings.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/scylladb:controller:manager-controller \
    deployments.apps/scylla-manager-controller
```

{#steps-1-17-to-1-18-upgrade-via-helm}
#### Upgrade via Helm

ScyllaDB Manager Helm installation has to be upgraded before upgrading {{productName}} Helm installation, following
the standard [Helm upgrade procedure](#upgrade-via-helm). This will ensure that the ScyllaDB Manager Controller
is removed before upgrading the {{productName}}.

Commit message:

Explicitly note that upgrade steps for specific versions are additional to the regular upgrade procedure

docs/source/management/upgrading/upgrade.md, after:

# Upgrading {{productName}}

{{productName}} supports N+1 upgrades only.
That means to you can only update by 1 minor version at the time and wait for it to successfully roll out and then update
all ScyllaClusters that also run using the image that's being updated. ({{productName}} injects it as a sidecar to help run and manage ScyllaDB.)

We value the stability of our APIs and all API changes are backwards compatible.

:::{caution}
If any additional steps are required for a specific version upgrade, they will be documented in the [Upgrade steps for specific versions](#upgrade-steps-for-specific-versions) section below.
:::

## Upgrade via GitOps (kubectl)

A typical upgrade flow using GitOps (kubectl) requires re-applying the manifests using ones from the release you want to upgrade to.
Note that {{productName}}'s dependencies also need to be updated to the versions compatible with the target {{productName}} version.

Please refer to the [GitOps installation instructions](./../../installation/gitops.md) for details.

## Upgrade via Helm

### Prerequisites
- Update {{productName}} dependencies to the versions compatible with the target {{productName}} version.
  Refer to the [Helm installation instructions](./../../installation/helm.md) for details.

- Make sure Helm chart repository is up-to-date:
  ```
  helm repo add scylla https://scylla-operator-charts.storage.googleapis.com/stable
  helm repo update
  ```

### Upgrade ScyllaDB Manager

Replace `<release_name>` with the name of your Helm release for ScyllaDB Manager and replace `<version>` with the version number you want to install:

```
helm upgrade --version <version> <release_name> scylla/scylla-manager
```

### Upgrade {{productName}} 

Replace `<release_name>` with the name of your Helm release for {{productName}} and replace `<version>` with the version number you want to install:

1. Update CRD resources. We recommend using `--server-side` flag for `kubectl apply`, if your version supports it.
   ```
   tmpdir=$( mktemp -d ) \
     && helm pull scylla-operator/scylla-operator --version <version> --untar --untardir "${tmpdir}" \
     && find "${tmpdir}"/scylla-operator/crds/ -name '*.yaml' -printf '-f=%p ' \
     | xargs kubectl apply
   ```
2. Update {{productName}}.
   ```
   helm upgrade --version <version> <release_name> scylla/scylla-operator
   ```

## Upgrade steps for specific versions

:::{caution}
The below instructions are **supplementary** to the standard upgrade procedure and don't fully replace it.
Make sure to familiarize yourself with both the standard upgrade procedure and the additional steps for the specific version you are upgrading to, if applicable, and follow them accordingly.
:::

### 1.17 to 1.18

Upgrading from v1.17.x requires extra actions due to the removal of the standalone ScyllaDB Manager controller.
The controller becomes an integral part of {{productName}}. As a result, the standalone ScyllaDB Manager controller deployment and its related resources
need to be removed before upgrading {{productName}}.

{#steps-1-17-to-1-18-upgrade-via-gitops}
#### Upgrade via GitOps (kubectl)

```
kubectl delete -n scylla-manager \
    clusterrole/scylladb:controller:aggregate-to-manager-controller \
    clusterrole/scylladb:controller:manager-controller \
    poddisruptionbudgets.policy/scylla-manager-controller \
    serviceaccounts/scylla-manager-controller \
    clusterrolebindings.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/scylladb:controller:manager-controller \
    deployments.apps/scylla-manager-controller
```

{#steps-1-17-to-1-18-upgrade-via-helm}
#### Upgrade via Helm

ScyllaDB Manager Helm installation has to be upgraded before upgrading {{productName}} Helm installation, following
the standard [Helm upgrade procedure](#upgrade-via-helm). This will ensure that the ScyllaDB Manager Controller
is removed before upgrading the {{productName}}.
