docs/minikube.md, before:

# Deploying Scylla on Minikube

The easiest and quickest way to try Scylla on Kubernetes!

## Prerequisites

* [Minikube](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-minikube/)

## Walkthrough


### Start Minikube:

For this guide, we will need 4 CPUs and 4GB RAM.

```bash
minikube start --cpus=4 --memory=4096
```


### Deploy the Scylla Operator:

```bash
kubectl apply -f examples/minikube/operator.yaml
```

This will install the operator StatefulSet in namespace scylla-operator-system. You can check if the operator is up and running with:
 
```bash
kubectl -n scylla-operator-system get pods
```
 

### Create a Scylla Cluster

```bash
kubectl apply -f examples/minikube/cluster.yaml
```

We can verify that a Kubernetes object has been created that represents our new Scylla cluster with the command below.
This is important because it shows that  has successfully extended Kubernetes to make Scylla clusters a first class citizen in the Kubernetes cloud-native environment.

```bash
kubectl -n scylla get clusters.scylla.scylladb.com
```

You can also track the state of a Scylla cluster from its status. To check the current status of a Cluster, run:

```bash
kubectl -n scylla describe clusters.scylla.scylladb.com simple-cluster
```

You can also run the following command to watch the Pods until they become Ready:
```bash
kubectl -n scylla get pods --watch -l app=scylla
```

### Accessing the Database

* From kubectl:

To get a cqlsh shell in your new Cluster:
```bash
kubectl exec -n scylla -it simple-cluster-us-east-1-us-east-1a-0 -- cqlsh
> DESCRIBE KEYSPACES;
```

## Scale Up

The operator supports scale up of a rack as well as addition of new racks. To make the changes, you can use:
```console
kubectl -n scylla edit clusters.scylla.scylladb.com simple-cluster
```
* To scale up a rack, change the `Spec.Members` field of the rack to the desired value.
* To add a new rack, append the `racks` list with a new rack. Remember to choose a different rack name for the new rack.
* After editing and saving the yaml, check your cluster's Status and Events for information on what's happening:  
```console
kubectl -n scylla describe clusters.scylla.scylladb.com simple-cluster 
```

 
## Scale Down

The operator supports scale down of a rack. To make the changes, you can use:
```console
kubectl -n scylla edit clusters.scylla.scylladb.com simple-cluster
```
* To scale down a rack, change the `Spec.Members` field of the rack to the desired value.
* After editing and saving the yaml, check your cluster's Status and Events for information on what's happening:
```console
kubectl -n scylla describe clusters.scylla.scylladb.com simple-cluster
```

## Configure Scylla

The operator can take a ConfigMap and apply it to the scylla.yaml configuration file.
This is done by adding a ConfigMap to Kubernetes and refering to this in the Rack specification.
The ConfigMap is just a file called `scylla.yaml` that has the properties you want to change in it.
The operator will take the default properties for the rest of the configuration. 

* Create a ConfigMap the default name that the operator uses is `scylla-config`:
```console
kubectl create configmap scylla-config -n scylla --from-file=/path/to/scylla.yaml
```
* Wait for the mount to propagate and then restart the cluster:
```console
kubectl rollout restart -n scylla statefulset/simple-cluster-us-east-1-us-east-1a
```
* The new config should be applied automatically by the operator, check the logs to be sure.

Configuring `cassandra-rackdc.properties` is done by adding the file to the same mount as `scylla.yaml`.
```console
kubectl create configmap scylla-config -n scylla --from-file=/tmp/scylla.yaml --from-file=/tmp/cassandra-rackdc.properties -o yaml --dry-run | kubectl replace -f -
```
The operator will then apply the overridable properties `prefer_local` and `dc_suffix` if they are available in the provided mounted file.

## Configure Scylla Manager Agent

The operator creates a second container for each scylla instance that runs [Scylla Manager Agent](https://hub.docker.com/r/scylladb/scylla-manager-agent).
This container serves as a sidecar and it's the main endpoint for [Scylla Manager](https://hub.docker.com/r/scylladb/scylla-manager) when interacting with Scylla.
The Scylla Manager Agent can be configured with various things such as the security token used to allow access to it's API.

To configure the agent you just create a new config-map called _scylla-agent-config_ and populate it with the contents in the `scylla-manager-agent.yaml` file like this:
```console
kubectl create configmap scylla-agent-config -n scylla --from-file=scylla-manager-agent.yaml
```

## Clean Up
 
To clean up all resources associated with this walk-through, you can run the commands below.

**NOTE:** this will destroy your database and delete all of its associated data.

```console
kubectl delete -f examples/minikube/cluster.yaml
kubectl delete -f examples/minikube/operator.yaml
```

## Troubleshooting

If the cluster does not come up, the first step would be to examine the operator's logs:

```console
kubectl -n scylla-operator-system logs -l app=scylla-operator
```

If everything looks OK in the operator logs, you can also look in the logs for one of the Scylla instances:

```console
kubectl -n scylla logs simple-cluster-us-east-1-us-east-1a-0
```

### Notice

This guide deploys Scylla is aimed at simplicity and because of that,
Scylla is deployed with sub-optimal performance settings.

For deploying Scylla with the optimal configuration, see the more advanced
[GKE guide](gke.md).

Commit message:

agent: docs for configuring the scylla client

docs/minikube.md, after:

# Deploying Scylla on Minikube

The easiest and quickest way to try Scylla on Kubernetes!

## Prerequisites

* [Minikube](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-minikube/)

## Walkthrough


### Start Minikube:

For this guide, we will need 4 CPUs and 4GB RAM.

```bash
minikube start --cpus=4 --memory=4096
```


### Deploy the Scylla Operator:

```bash
kubectl apply -f examples/minikube/operator.yaml
```

This will install the operator StatefulSet in namespace scylla-operator-system. You can check if the operator is up and running with:
 
```bash
kubectl -n scylla-operator-system get pods
```
 

### Create a Scylla Cluster

```bash
kubectl apply -f examples/minikube/cluster.yaml
```

We can verify that a Kubernetes object has been created that represents our new Scylla cluster with the command below.
This is important because it shows that  has successfully extended Kubernetes to make Scylla clusters a first class citizen in the Kubernetes cloud-native environment.

```bash
kubectl -n scylla get clusters.scylla.scylladb.com
```

You can also track the state of a Scylla cluster from its status. To check the current status of a Cluster, run:

```bash
kubectl -n scylla describe clusters.scylla.scylladb.com simple-cluster
```

You can also run the following command to watch the Pods until they become Ready:
```bash
kubectl -n scylla get pods --watch -l app=scylla
```

### Accessing the Database

* From kubectl:

To get a cqlsh shell in your new Cluster:
```bash
kubectl exec -n scylla -it simple-cluster-us-east-1-us-east-1a-0 -- cqlsh
> DESCRIBE KEYSPACES;
```

## Scale Up

The operator supports scale up of a rack as well as addition of new racks. To make the changes, you can use:
```console
kubectl -n scylla edit clusters.scylla.scylladb.com simple-cluster
```
* To scale up a rack, change the `Spec.Members` field of the rack to the desired value.
* To add a new rack, append the `racks` list with a new rack. Remember to choose a different rack name for the new rack.
* After editing and saving the yaml, check your cluster's Status and Events for information on what's happening:  
```console
kubectl -n scylla describe clusters.scylla.scylladb.com simple-cluster 
```

 
## Scale Down

The operator supports scale down of a rack. To make the changes, you can use:
```console
kubectl -n scylla edit clusters.scylla.scylladb.com simple-cluster
```
* To scale down a rack, change the `Spec.Members` field of the rack to the desired value.
* After editing and saving the yaml, check your cluster's Status and Events for information on what's happening:
```console
kubectl -n scylla describe clusters.scylla.scylladb.com simple-cluster
```

## Configure Scylla

The operator can take a ConfigMap and apply it to the scylla.yaml configuration file.
This is done by adding a ConfigMap to Kubernetes and refering to this in the Rack specification.
The ConfigMap is just a file called `scylla.yaml` that has the properties you want to change in it.
The operator will take the default properties for the rest of the configuration. 

* Create a ConfigMap the default name that the operator uses is `scylla-config`:
```console
kubectl create configmap scylla-config -n scylla --from-file=/path/to/scylla.yaml
```
* Wait for the mount to propagate and then restart the cluster:
```console
kubectl rollout restart -n scylla statefulset/simple-cluster-us-east-1-us-east-1a
```
* The new config should be applied automatically by the operator, check the logs to be sure.

Configuring `cassandra-rackdc.properties` is done by adding the file to the same mount as `scylla.yaml`.
```console
kubectl create configmap scylla-config -n scylla --from-file=/tmp/scylla.yaml --from-file=/tmp/cassandra-rackdc.properties -o yaml --dry-run | kubectl replace -f -
```
The operator will then apply the overridable properties `prefer_local` and `dc_suffix` if they are available in the provided mounted file.

## Configure Scylla Manager Agent

The operator creates a second container for each scylla instance that runs [Scylla Manager Agent](https://hub.docker.com/r/scylladb/scylla-manager-agent).
This container serves as a sidecar and it's the main endpoint for [Scylla Manager](https://hub.docker.com/r/scylladb/scylla-manager) when interacting with Scylla.
The Scylla Manager Agent can be configured with various things such as the security token used to allow access to it's API.

To configure the agent you just create a new config-map called _scylla-agent-config_ and populate it with the contents in the `scylla-manager-agent.yaml` file like this:
```console
kubectl create configmap scylla-agent-config -n scylla --from-file=scylla-manager-agent.yaml
```

In order for the operator to be able to use the agent it may need to be configured accordingly. For example it needs a matching security token.
The operator uses a file called `scylla-client.yaml` for this and the content is today limited to two properties:
```yaml
auth_token: the_token
```
To configure the operator you just create a new config-map called _scylla-client-config_ and populate it with the contents in the `scylla-client.yaml` file like this:
```console
kubectl create configmap scylla-agent-config -n scylla --from-file=scylla-manager-agent.yaml
```
After a restart the operator will use the security token when it interacts with scylla via the agent.

## Clean Up
 
To clean up all resources associated with this walk-through, you can run the commands below.

**NOTE:** this will destroy your database and delete all of its associated data.

```console
kubectl delete -f examples/minikube/cluster.yaml
kubectl delete -f examples/minikube/operator.yaml
```

## Troubleshooting

If the cluster does not come up, the first step would be to examine the operator's logs:

```console
kubectl -n scylla-operator-system logs -l app=scylla-operator
```

If everything looks OK in the operator logs, you can also look in the logs for one of the Scylla instances:

```console
kubectl -n scylla logs simple-cluster-us-east-1-us-east-1a-0
```

### Notice

This guide deploys Scylla is aimed at simplicity and because of that,
Scylla is deployed with sub-optimal performance settings.

For deploying Scylla with the optimal configuration, see the more advanced
[GKE guide](gke.md).
